Clarify when to use the OTel starter (#3731)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/spring-boot.md

title: Spring Boot
linkTitle: Spring Boot
weight: 30
description: Spring Boot instrumentation for OpenTelemetry Java
cSpell:ignore: autoconfigure datasource logback springboot springframework
---

The [OpenTelemetry Java agent](..) with byte code instrumentation can cover most
of your needs when instrumenting
[Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot) applications.

You can't use the OpenTelemetry Java agent with Spring Boot Native image
applications, but you still can instrument your code using OpenTelemetry [Spring
Boot starter].

[Spring Boot starter]:
  https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#using.build-systems.starters

The
[opentelemetry-java-examples/spring-native](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-examples/tree/main/spring-native)
repository contains an example of a Spring Boot Native image application
instrumented using the OpenTelemetry Spring Boot starter.

If your application already uses a Java agent, the OpenTelemetry Java agent
might not work. In this case, use the OpenTelemetry starter.

> A third situation in which the OpenTelemetry starter can help you is when the
> startup overhead of the OpenTelemetry Java agent exceeds your requirements.

Reviewer: (also I'd suggest bumping this up to reason 2)

```suggestion
A third situation in which the OpenTelemetry starter can help you is if the
startup overhead of the OpenTelemetry Java agent exceeds your requirements.
```

> might not work. In this case, use the OpenTelemetry starter.

Reviewer: what do you think of making these 3 bullets? I think it might give this section a bit of helpful structure for readers

cSpell:ignore: autoconfigure datasource logback springboot springframework
---

> ## How to instrument a Spring Boot application

Reviewer 2: I feel the title here is redundant. You can eliminate it and use the doc title (or, better yet, rewrite the description).

The [OpenTelemetry Java agent](..) with byte code instrumentation should cover
most of your needs to instrument your [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot)
application.

You can't use the OpenTelemetry Java agent with a Spring Boot Native image applications, but the

> OpenTelemetry [Spring Boot starter] allows you to instrument your code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [OpenTelemetry Java agent](..) with byte code instrumentation can cover
most of your needs when instrumenting [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot)
applications.

You can't use the OpenTelemetry Java agent with Spring Boot Native image applications, but you
still can instrument your code using OpenTelemetry [Spring Boot starter].
```

[Spring Boot starter]:
https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#using.build-systems.starters

[opentelemetry-java-examples/spring-native](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-examples/tree/main/spring-native gives an example of a Spring Boot Native image application with the OpenTelemetry
Spring Boot starter

If your application already uses a Java agent, the OpenTelemetry Java agent may not work. In this case, you can also use the OpenTelemetry starter.

> A third situation in which the OpenTelemetry starter can help you is when the start-up overhead of the OpenTelemetry Java agent is too important for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The
[opentelemetry-java-examples/spring-native](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-examples/tree/main/spring-native)
repository contains an example of a Spring Boot Native image application instrumented using
the OpenTelemetry Spring Boot starter.

If your application already uses a Java agent, the OpenTelemetry Java agent might not work. In this case,
use the OpenTelemetry starter.

A third situation in which the OpenTelemetry starter can help you is when the startup overhead of the OpenTelemetry Java agent exceeds your requirements.
```
